Coc updates 2023 (#710)
ropensci/roweb3: content/blog/2024-01-12-conduct2023/index.md

---
title: rOpenSci Code of Conduct Annual Review
author:
  - Yanina Bellini Saibene
  - Mark Padgham
  - Kara Woo

> date: '2022-01-12'

Author: ```suggestion
date: '2024-01-30'
```

rOpenSci is committed to providing a safe, inclusive, welcoming, and harassment-free experience for everyone. We welcome people of all backgrounds and identities, including but not limited to gender, gender identity and expression, age, sexual orientation, disability, physical appearance, body size, race, ethnicity, religion (or lack thereof), or technology choices. We are anti-racist. We welcome anyone, no matter their technical expertise, career stage, or work sector. 

We are supported by rOpenSci’s Code of Conduct that applies to all people participating in the rOpenSci community, including rOpenSci staff and leadership. It applies to all modes of interaction online including GitHub project repositories, the rOpenSci discussion forum, Slack, Community Calls, Co-working and social sessions, in person at rOpenSci-hosted events, including social gatherings affiliated with the event. It is developed and enforced by a committee including rOpenSci staff and an independent community member.

Here we report on our annual review of rOpenSci's Code of Conduct, reporting process, and internal guidelines for handling reports and enforcement. 

## Updates

> 1. A change to the committee. [Kara Woo](https://karawoo.com/) (independent community member) is stepped down from the committee after five year of service. Committee members for 2023 are [Mark Padgham](/author/mark-padgham) (rOpenSci Software Research Scientist) and [Yanina Bellini Saibene](/author/yanina-bellini-saibene) (rOpenSci Community Manager). We are responsible for receiving, investigating, deciding, enforcing and reporting on all reports of potential violations of our Code.

Author: ```suggestion
1. A change to the committee. [Kara Woo](https://karawoo.com/) (independent community member) has stepped down from the committee after five years of service. We welcome [Natalia Morandeira](https://nmorandeira.netlify.app) to serve on this role. Committee members for 2024 are Natalia Morandeira (independent member), [Mark Padgham](/author/mark-padgham) (rOpenSci Software Research Scientist) and [Yanina Bellini Saibene](/author/yanina-bellini-saibene) (rOpenSci Community Manager). We are responsible for receiving, investigating, deciding, enforcing, and reporting on all reports of potential violations of our Code.
```

> 1. A change to the committee. [Kara Woo](https://karawoo.com/) (independent community member) is stepped down from the committee after five year of service. Committee members for 2023 are [Mark Padgham](/author/mark-padgham) (rOpenSci Software Research Scientist) and [Yanina Bellini Saibene](/author/yanina-bellini-saibene) (rOpenSci Community Manager). We are responsible for receiving, investigating, deciding, enforcing and reporting on all reports of potential violations of our Code.

Author: ```suggestion
1. A change to the committee. [Kara Woo](https://karawoo.com/) (independent community member) is stepped down from the committee after five year of service. Committee members for 2024 are [Mark Padgham](/author/mark-padgham) (rOpenSci Software Research Scientist) and [Yanina Bellini Saibene](/author/yanina-bellini-saibene) (rOpenSci Community Manager). We are responsible for receiving, investigating, deciding, enforcing and reporting on all reports of potential violations of our Code.
```

2. No changes have been made to the text of the Code.

> With this change of committee members, this will be version 2.5, dated January 12, 2023.

Author: ```suggestion
With this change of committee members, this will be version 2.5, dated January 30, 2024.
```
